docs/source/operations/external_chaincode.md, before:

<a name = "external-chaincode"></a>
# Install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincode using BAF

Once a Hyperledger Fabric network is up, using BAF, BAF users might want to Install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincodes. BAF supports this task by executing the following steps:

 - [Update core.yaml with externalBuilder details](#update_core_yaml)
 - [Update Chaincode Server with these details](#chaincode_server)
 - [Modify configuration file](#modify_conf)
 - [Execute playbook](#execute_playbook)

<a name = "update_core_yaml"></a>
## Update core.yaml with externalBuilder details
Make sure the `chaincode` section of core.yaml consists of the following details:

```yaml
###############################################################################
#
#    Chaincode section
#
###############################################################################
chaincode:
  .
  .
  .
  # List of directories to treat as external builders and launchers for
  # chaincode. The external builder detection processing will iterate over the
  # builders in the order specified below.
  externalBuilders: 
  - name: external-builder
    path: /var/hyperledger/production/buildpacks/marbles 
  -
  -

  .
  .
  .
```
**NOTE:** The above values are sample vaules. *The `externalBuilders.path` should start be in the format - `/var/hyperledger/production/buildpacks/<CHAINCODE_NAME>`*

Refer [this guide](./update_running_core_yaml_peer.md) for updating a running core.yaml for a peer.

Refer [this link](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/tree/main/asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-external/sampleBuilder/bin) for sample buildpack and [this guide](https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.2/cc_launcher.html) for related documentation.


<a name = "chaincode_server"></a>
## Update Chaincode Server with these details
For BAF to be able to execute the external chaincode server it expects the following to be available:
- Chaincode server docker image
- Following env vars:
    - `CHAINCODE_CCID`: CCID generated while installing the chaincode
    - `CHAINCODE_ADDRESS`: Host and port details where the shim server will be listening
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_DISABLED`: Boolean flag for if TLS is disabled
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_KEY`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Client key
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_CERT`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Client certificate
    - `CHAINCODE_CLIENT_CA_CERT`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Root CA cetificate

A sample server snippet in GOLANG:
```go
// ===================================================================================
// Main
// ===================================================================================
func main() {

	server := &shim.ChaincodeServer{
		CCID:    os.Getenv("CHAINCODE_CCID"),
		Address: os.Getenv("CHAINCODE_ADDRESS"),
		CC:      new(SimpleChaincode),
		TLSProps: getTLSProperties(),
	}

	// Start the chaincode external server
	err := server.Start()

	if err != nil {
		fmt.Printf("Error starting Marbles02 chaincode: %s", err)
	}
}


// TLS Function
func getTLSProperties() shim.TLSProperties {
	// Check if chaincode is TLS enabled
	tlsDisabledStr := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_DISABLED", "false")
	key := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_KEY", "")
	cert := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_CERT", "")
	clientCACert := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_CLIENT_CA_CERT", "")

	// convert tlsDisabledStr to boolean
	tlsDisabled := getBoolOrDefault(tlsDisabledStr, false)
	var keyBytes, certBytes, clientCACertBytes []byte
	var err error

	if !tlsDisabled {
		keyBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(key)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
		certBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(cert)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
	}
	// Did not request for the peer cert verification
	if clientCACert != "" {
		clientCACertBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(clientCACert)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
	}

	return shim.TLSProperties{
		Disabled: tlsDisabled,
		Key: keyBytes,
		Cert: certBytes,
		ClientCACerts: clientCACertBytes,
	}
}

func getEnvOrDefault(env, defaultVal string) string {
	value, ok := os.LookupEnv(env)
	if !ok {
		value = defaultVal
	}
	return value
}

// Note that the method returns default value if the string
// cannot be parsed!
func getBoolOrDefault(value string, defaultVal bool) bool {
	parsed, err := strconv.ParseBool(value)
	if err!= nil {
		return defaultVal
	}
	return parsed
}
```

<a name = "modify_conf"></a>
## Modify configuration file
Refer [this guide](./fabric_networkyaml.md) for details on editing the configuration file.

While modifying the configuration file(`network.yaml`) the belwo defined can be added under `network.organizations.services.peers[i].chaincode` as follows:
- `name`: Name of the chaincode
- `version`: version of the chaincode
- `external_chaincode`: Boolean Flag | for is the chaincode external
- `buildpack_path`: Path to the supplied buildpack to be copied to the peer node
- `image`: Docker image path for the desired docker registry
- `tls_disabled`: Boolean Flag | for is TLS disabled
- `crypto_mount_path`: If TLS is enabled, path to mount TLS certs and key in the chaincode server pod
Refer [this guide](./custom_core_yaml_peer.md) for details on editing the core.yaml file with template vars.

**NOTE:** The template vars are the variables defined in the Helm value file for the corresponding Helm Chart

    network:
      channels:
      - channel:
        ..
        ..
        participants:
      organizations:
        - organization:
          services:
            peers:
              name:
              type: 
              gossippeeraddress:
              cli:
              grpc:
                port: 
              chaincode:
                name: 
                version: 
                external_chaincode:
                tls_disabled: 
                buildpack_path: 
                image: 
                crypto_mount_path: 
          ..
          .. 

<a name = "execute_playbook"></a>
## Execute playbook

The [external-chaincode.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/blockchain-automation-framework/tree/develop/platforms/shared/configuration/external-chaincode.yaml) playbook can be used install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincodes. This can be done using the following command

```
ansible-playbook platforms/shared/configuration/external-chaincode.yaml --extra-vars "@path-to-network.yaml"
```

For `network.yaml` reference, see `network-fabricv2-external-chaincode.yaml` file [here](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/blockchain-automation-framework/tree/develop/platforms/hyperledger-fabric/configuration/samples).

Commit message:

pdc support and volumechaimtemplate changes 1. added private data collection support 2. updated to use volumeclaimtemplate for pvc create 3. added resource limits to trigger vmss scaling as temporary solution
Signed-off-by: weihong-ou <weihong.ou@walmart.com>

docs/source/operations/external_chaincode.md, after:

<a name = "external-chaincode"></a>
# Install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincode using BAF

Once a Hyperledger Fabric network is up, using BAF, BAF users might want to Install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincodes. BAF supports this task by executing the following steps:

 - [Update core.yaml with externalBuilder details](#update_core_yaml)
 - [Update Chaincode Server with these details](#chaincode_server)
 - [Modify configuration file](#modify_conf)
 - [Execute playbook](#execute_playbook)

<a name = "update_core_yaml"></a>
## Update core.yaml with externalBuilder details
Make sure the `chaincode` section of core.yaml consists of the following details:

```yaml
###############################################################################
#
#    Chaincode section
#
###############################################################################
chaincode:
  .
  .
  .
  # List of directories to treat as external builders and launchers for
  # chaincode. The external builder detection processing will iterate over the
  # builders in the order specified below.
  externalBuilders: 
  - name: external-builder
    path: /var/hyperledger/production/buildpacks/marbles 
  -
  -

  .
  .
  .
```
**NOTE:** The above values are sample vaules. *The `externalBuilders.path` should start be in the format - `/var/hyperledger/production/buildpacks/<CHAINCODE_NAME>`*

Refer [this guide](./update_running_core_yaml_peer.md) for updating a running core.yaml for a peer.

Refer [this link](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/tree/main/asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-external/sampleBuilder/bin) for sample buildpack and [this guide](https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.2/cc_launcher.html) for related documentation.


<a name = "chaincode_server"></a>
## Update Chaincode Server with these details
For BAF to be able to execute the external chaincode server it expects the following to be available:
- Chaincode server docker image
- Following env vars:
    - `CHAINCODE_CCID`: CCID generated while installing the chaincode
    - `CHAINCODE_ADDRESS`: Host and port details where the shim server will be listening
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_DISABLED`: Boolean flag for if TLS is disabled
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_KEY`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Client key
    - `CHAINCODE_TLS_CERT`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Client certificate
    - `CHAINCODE_CLIENT_CA_CERT`: If TLS is enabled, path to the Root CA cetificate

A sample server snippet in GOLANG:
```go
// ===================================================================================
// Main
// ===================================================================================
func main() {

	server := &shim.ChaincodeServer{
		CCID:    os.Getenv("CHAINCODE_CCID"),
		Address: os.Getenv("CHAINCODE_ADDRESS"),
		CC:      new(SimpleChaincode),
		TLSProps: getTLSProperties(),
	}

	// Start the chaincode external server
	err := server.Start()

	if err != nil {
		fmt.Printf("Error starting Marbles02 chaincode: %s", err)
	}
}


// TLS Function
func getTLSProperties() shim.TLSProperties {
	// Check if chaincode is TLS enabled
	tlsDisabledStr := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_DISABLED", "false")
	key := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_KEY", "")
	cert := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_TLS_CERT", "")
	clientCACert := getEnvOrDefault("CHAINCODE_CLIENT_CA_CERT", "")

	// convert tlsDisabledStr to boolean
	tlsDisabled := getBoolOrDefault(tlsDisabledStr, false)
	var keyBytes, certBytes, clientCACertBytes []byte
	var err error

	if !tlsDisabled {
		keyBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(key)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
		certBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(cert)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
	}
	// Did not request for the peer cert verification
	if clientCACert != "" {
		clientCACertBytes, err = ioutil.ReadFile(clientCACert)
		if err != nil {
			log.Panicf("error while reading the crypto file: %s", err)
		}
	}

	return shim.TLSProperties{
		Disabled: tlsDisabled,
		Key: keyBytes,
		Cert: certBytes,
		ClientCACerts: clientCACertBytes,
	}
}

func getEnvOrDefault(env, defaultVal string) string {
	value, ok := os.LookupEnv(env)
	if !ok {
		value = defaultVal
	}
	return value
}

// Note that the method returns default value if the string
// cannot be parsed!
func getBoolOrDefault(value string, defaultVal bool) bool {
	parsed, err := strconv.ParseBool(value)
	if err!= nil {
		return defaultVal
	}
	return parsed
}
```

<a name = "modify_conf"></a>
## Modify configuration file
Refer [this guide](./fabric_networkyaml.md) for details on editing the configuration file.

While modifying the configuration file(`network.yaml`) the belwo defined can be added under `network.organizations.services.peers[i].chaincode` as follows:
- `name`: Name of the chaincode
- `version`: version of the chaincode
- `external_chaincode`: Boolean Flag | for is the chaincode external
- `buildpack_path`: Path to the supplied buildpack to be copied to the peer node
- `image`: Docker image path for the desired docker registry
- `tls_disabled`: Boolean Flag | for is TLS disabled
- `crypto_mount_path`: If TLS is enabled, path to mount TLS certs and key in the chaincode server pod
Refer [this guide](./custom_core_yaml_peer.md) for details on editing the core.yaml file with template vars.

**NOTE:** The template vars are the variables defined in the Helm value file for the corresponding Helm Chart

    network:
      channels:
      - channel:
        ..
        ..
        participants:
      organizations:
        - organization:
          services:
            peers:
              name:
              type: 
              gossippeeraddress:
              cli:
              grpc:
                port: 
              chaincode:
                name: 
                version: 
                external_chaincode:
                tls_disabled: 
                buildpack_path: 
                image:
                pdc: # private data collection config
                  enabled:  # true/false
                  collections_config: # path to the config file
                private_registry: # true/false, this allows kubernetes to pull image from private registry, such as github.
                registry:
                  server:
                  username:
                  password:
                crypto_mount_path: 
          ..
          .. 

<a name = "execute_playbook"></a>
## Execute playbook

The [external-chaincode.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/blockchain-automation-framework/tree/develop/platforms/shared/configuration/external-chaincode.yaml) playbook can be used install, approve, commit and deploy external chaincodes. This can be done using the following command

```
ansible-playbook platforms/shared/configuration/external-chaincode.yaml --extra-vars "@path-to-network.yaml"
```

For `network.yaml` reference, see `network-fabricv2-external-chaincode.yaml` file [here](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/blockchain-automation-framework/tree/develop/platforms/hyperledger-fabric/configuration/samples).
